---
title: 'Stephen Kilgore Portfolio'
image: '/assets/images/projects/portfolio.png'
technologies:
  [
    'HTML',
    'CSS',
    'JavaScript',
    'Eleventy',
    'Markdown',
    'Nunjucks',
    'AWS Lambda',
    'AWS API Gateway',
    'AWS SNS',
  ]
environment: 'Deployed to AWS S3 with CloudFront via GitHub Actions'
live_demo: 'https://stephenkilgore.com'
github_link: 'https://github.com/stephen-kilgore/portfolio'
layout: 'layouts/project.html'
permalink: 'projects/stephen-kilgore-portfolio/index.html'
css: '/assets/css/project.css'
blog_post: '/posts/project-spotlight-portfolio-site/'
---

## Stephen Kilgore Portfolio

Welcome to my digital home. This site serves as a portfolio to showcase my skills, projects, and experience. Built using Eleventy, a static site generator, this portfolio leverages modern web technologies and best practices in web development.

### Features

- **Responsive Design**: Ensuring a seamless experience across all devices.
- **Markdown Integration**: Easy content management with markdown files for blog posts and project entries.
- **Automated Deployment**: Continuous integration and deployment using GitHub Actions.

### Technologies Used

- **HTML**: For structuring the content.
- **CSS**: For styling the website and ensuring a consistent look and feel.
- **JavaScript**: For interactive features.
- **Eleventy**: Static site generator to build the site.
- **Markdown**: Simplified content creation and management.
- **Nunjucks**: Templating engine for Eleventy.
- **AWS Lambda**: Serverless computing to handle backend logic.
- **AWS API Gateway**: API management for serverless requests.
- **AWS SNS**: Simple Notification Service for sending messages.

### Production Environment

The site is deployed to AWS S3 with CloudFront via an automated CI/CD pipeline using GitHub Actions. This ensures that any changes pushed to the repository are automatically built and deployed, keeping the site up-to-date with minimal manual intervention.

### Project Writeup

You can read my blog post describing this project in more detail [here](https://stephenkilgore.com/posts/project-spotlight-portfolio-site/).

### Live Demo

You can view the live version of the site [here](https://stephenkilgore.com).

### GitHub Repository

The source code for this portfolio is available on GitHub. Feel free to explore the repository, open issues, or contribute to the project [here](https://github.com/stephen-kilgore/portfolio).

This project is a continuous work in progress, and I am always looking for ways to improve and add new features. Thank you for visiting, and I hope you find something interesting or useful here!
